Update README (#24)
akeneo/CsvToAsset: README.md

# CsvToAsset

> This tool migrates legacy PAM assets (_before 4.0_) to new Asset Manager assets (_available since 3.2_).

Reviewer: I don't think we should say it's available since 3.2, It was not activated by default so I'm a bit "partagé" on stating this here.

composer install
```

With Docker, install dependencies with `composer` image:
```bash
docker-compose up
docker run --rm --interactive --tty --volume $PWD:/app --volume ${HOST_COMPOSER_HOME:-~/.composer}:/var/www/.composer composer:1.7 install
```

You're ready to migrate your assets!

## Setup

You need to copy the [.env](https://symfony.com/doc/current/components/dotenv.html) file:
```bash
cp .env .env.local
```

Then open `.env.local` to define the needed configuration vars:
- `AKENEO_API_BASE_URI` refers to the URL of your PIM Enterprise Edition, used for API calls.
   For example, `http://localhost:80`.
   If you use Docker, set this value to `http://httpd:80` (or `https://httpd:443` if you use SSL).
- `APP_ENV` refers to the `APP_ENV` of your PIM Enterprise Edition, used for direct bask calls.
   Set it to `prod`, `prod_onprem_paas`...

## Docker setup

First, you have to update your Enterprise Edition `docker-compose.yml` file to allow external data from network.

```yaml
networks:
  pim:
    external: true
```
Then you will have to recreate this network manually. 
Go to your Enterprise Edition directory.
List the current networks with
```bash
docker network list
```

> Find your Enterprise Edition network in this list, stop your Docker, then removes it, to recreate the new one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find your Enterprise Edition network in this list, stop your Docker so it removes it, to be able to create the new one.
```

```bash
docker-compose stop
docker network create pim
docker-compose up -d
```

Then, you have to use the `docker-compose.override.yml` of this repository. 
Copy paste the `docker-compose.override.yml.dist` into `docker-compose.override.yml`.
Then, update `/path/to/ee/` to match to your local installation (e.g. `/home/akeneo/pim-ee/`).
Finally, restart your CsvToAsset docker:
```bash
docker-compose up
```

## How to Use

> Please read the different scenarios to find the one which will match your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please read the different migration scenarios to find the one which will match your needs.
```

> You can refer to the [migration guide](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/articles/pam-migration-guide.html) to have full description of each scenario.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can refer to the [migration guide](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/articles/pam-migration-guide.html) to have a full description of each scenario.
```

### Full-automatic migration

This mode is for a PIM with a simple usage of the former PAM assets.

> It will automatically create your PAM assets and import them it into one unique new Asset family.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will automatically create your PAM assets and import them into a unique Asset family.
```

As the categories and tags do not exist in the new Asset feature, we will keep them in a specific field on each Asset.

Please read the [full documentation](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/articles/full-automatic-pam-migration.html).

### Family-by-family migration

> This mode is when you need to create several Asset families.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this mode, you will create several Asset families.
```

Please read the [full documentation](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/articles/family-by-family-pam-migration.html).

### Full manual migration

> This mode is when you need to create several Asset families and choose every parameter of your families.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This mode is for users who need to create several Asset families and choose every parameter of your families.
```

Please read the [full documentation](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/articles/full-manual-pam-migration.html).

## Commands

### `app:migrate [options] <pim-path> <assets-csv-filename> <variations-csv-filename>`
> This command migrates a single assets CSV file to one or several Asset families.

> You can run `app:migrate -h` to have full details about this command arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run `app:migrate -h` to have full details about this command's arguments.
```

Options:
- `--asset-family-code=ASSET-FAMILY-CODE`
- `--reference-type=localizable|non-localizable|both|auto`
- `--with-categories=yes|no|auto`
- `--with-variationsyes|no`
- `--with-end-of-use=yes|no|auto`
- `--convert-category-to-option=yes|no|auto`
- `--convert-tag-to-option=yes|no|auto`

### `app:create-family [options] <asset-family-code>`

> > This command creates (using the API) an Asset Family with attributes needed to support legacy PAM structure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This command creates (using the API) an Asset Family with attributes needed to support the legacy PAM structure
```

# CsvToAsset

This tool migrates legacy PAM assets (_before 4.0_) to new Asset Manager assets (_available since 3.2_).

## Installation

If your PIM Enterprise Edition uses Docker, we encourage you to use this tool with Docker too.
First, clone this repository

```bash
git clone git@github.com:akeneo/CsvToAsset.git csv_to_asset
cd csv_to_asset
```

Without Docker, you need to install `composer` locally:
```bash
composer install
```

With Docker, install dependencies with `composer` image:
```bash
docker-compose up

> docker run --rm --interactive --tty --volume $PWD:/app --volume ${HOST_COMPOSER_HOME:-~/.composer}:/var/www/.composer composer:1.7 install

Reviewer 2: crazy how docker is way simpler than bare metal :trollface:

- `APP_ENV` refers to the `APP_ENV` of your PIM Enterprise Edition, used for direct bask calls.
   Set it to `prod`, `prod_onprem_paas`...

## Docker setup

First, you have to update your Enterprise Edition `docker-compose.yml` file to allow external data from network.

```yaml
networks:
  pim:
    external: true
```
Then you will have to recreate this network manually. 
Go to your Enterprise Edition directory.
List the current networks with
```bash
docker network list
```
Find your Enterprise Edition network in this list, stop your Docker, then removes it, to recreate the new one.
```bash
docker-container stop
docker network create pim
docker-container up -d
```

Then, you have to use the `docker-compose.override.yml` of this repository. 
Copy paste the `docker-compose.override.yml.dist` into `docker-compose.override.yml`.
Then, update `/path/to/ee/` to match to your local installation (e.g. `/home/akeneo/pim-ee/`).
Finally, restart your CsvToAsset docker:
```bash
docker-compose up
```

## How to Use

Please read the different scenarios to find the one which will match your needs.

### Full-automatic migration

> This mode is for a PIM with a simple usage of the former assets.

Reviewer: ?
```suggestion
This mode is for a PIM with a simple usage of the PAS assets.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This mode is for a PIM with a simple usage of the former PAM assets.
```

> It will automatically create your previous assets and import them it into one unique new Asset family.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will automatically create your PAM assets and import them it into one unique new Asset family.
```

> As the categories and tags does not exist in the new Asset feature, we will keep them in a specific field on each Asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the categories and tags do not exist in the new Asset feature, we will keep them in a specific field on each Asset.
```

To migrate your data, run
```bash
./bin/migrate.php <family-code> <path-to-ee-installation>
```
with
- `family-code` will be the code of your brand new Asset family,
- `path-to-ee-installation` is the path of your local Enterprise Edition. If you use Docker, this value will be `/srv/ee`.

> ### Migration semi-automatic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Migration family by family
```

Author: I'm not fan of "family by family". For me the "family by family" is the "full manual" mode

This mode is when you need to create several Asset families.

#### Export assets

You first need to export your assets of your Enterprise Edition. Go to your Enterprise Edition path, then 
```bash
php bin/console pimee:migrate-pam-assets:export-assets <temporary-folder>
```
This command will export 2 files, named `<temporary-folder>/assets.csv` and `<temporary-folder>/variations.csv`, each of them containing the assets and the variations.

#### Choose your families

Open the `assets.csv` file with your favorite spreadsheet editor, to add a new column named `family`.

> This column have to be the family code where you want to put your asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This column has to be the family code where you want to put your assets in.
```

> You can put a different value at each line of this file, it will create as much families as different family codes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can put a different value at each line of this file, it will create as much families as there are family codes.
```

Save your `assets.csv` in the same format than the original one (most important is the separator has to be `;`!).

> #### Save your connection

Reviewer: Add a section to make sure the USER role has the permission to call the API

> Create your new new connection to be able to use the API. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create your new connection to be able to use the API. 
```

> Create your new new connection to be able to use the API. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tool will use the REST API of your PIM to migrate your PAM assets. To be able to do so, you need to create a new API connection. 
```

# CsvToAsset

This tool migrates legacy PAM assets (_before 4.0_) to new Asset Manager assets (_available since 3.2_).

## Installation

If your PIM Enterprise Edition uses Docker, we encourage you to use this tool with Docker too.
First, clone this repository

```bash
git clone git@github.com:akeneo/CsvToAsset.git csv_to_asset
cd csv_to_asset
```

Without Docker, you need to install `composer` locally:
```bash
composer install
```

With Docker, install dependencies with `composer` image:
```bash
docker-compose up
docker run --rm --interactive --tty --volume $PWD:/app --volume ${HOST_COMPOSER_HOME:-~/.composer}:/var/www/.composer composer:1.7 install
```

You're ready to migrate your assets!

## Setup

You need to copy the [.env](https://symfony.com/doc/current/components/dotenv.html) file:
```bash
cp .env .env.local
```

Then open `.env.local` to define the needed configuration vars:

> - `AKENEO_API_BASE` refers to the URL of your PIM Enterprise Edition, used for API calls.

Reviewer: AKENEO_API_BASE_URI

   For example, `http://localhost:80`.
   If you use Docker, set this value to `http://httpd:80` (or `https://httpd:443` if you use SSL).
- `APP_ENV` refers to the `APP_ENV` of your PIM Enterprise Edition, used for direct bask calls.
   Set it to `prod`, `prod_onprem_paas`...

## Docker setup

First, you have to update your Enterprise Edition `docker-compose.yml` file to allow external data from network.

```yaml
networks:
  pim:
    external: true
```
Then you will have to recreate this network manually. 
Go to your Enterprise Edition directory.
List the current networks with
```bash
docker network list
```
Find your Enterprise Edition network in this list, stop your Docker, then removes it, to recreate the new one.
```bash

> docker-container stop

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
docker-compose stop
```

docker network create pim

> docker-container up -d

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
docker-compose up -d
```

- `tags` (_text attribute_)
- `end_of_use` (_text attribute_)

> You can run `app:create-family -h` to have full details about this command arguments.

Reviewer: ?
```suggestion
You can run `app:create-family -h` to have full details about this command's arguments.
```
